# Handwriting Profile Recognition
## Proposed by 404 Web Surfers

### Project Overview
Illegible handwriting is a widespread issue that causes confusion, frustration, and has ultimately created an ongoing accessibility challenge in digitization. Whether it is for someone grading exams, or someone just looking to transfer their handwritten work online, the translation of handwritten characters into text would be very helpful. Not only would this solution overcome the issue of illegible handwriting, but it would also introduce tremendous ease in workflow for all handwriting. Our handwriting recognition project aims to make handwriting more accessible for all readers by translating written text into digitally identifiable text. Moreover, the implementation of artificial intelligence and machine learning will allow the program to learn an individual’s handwriting to create more effective and personalized results. 

Our final goal is to detect characters of the English language and properly import them into digital environments. With the use of available datasets, our project would benefit all users. For example, in academic institutions, our solution would help increase the grading speed for written work, help instructors efficiently share their written work with students, and also aid in general image-to-text scanning to improve accuracy.

### Why is it important to us?
Not all information is well formatted and available on the internet. The ability to scan and transfer documents to a computer could be vital in the digitization of old and physical documents into online cloud storage. For individuals with accessibility needs, this project allows them to use screen readers on physical or scanned documents. Furthermore, students could use the system to create comprehensive notes with their computers at home. Having the ability to convert documents could decrease the amount of time spent in data entry positions, thus resulting in available man-power that can be applied to other more important tasks. This project also aims to profile writing by continuing to train itself in character recognition by building a user profile on an individual's handwriting as documents are scanned. 

### Why can machine learning solve this problem?
Machine learning can be used to recognize patterns from the images when translating handwritings into computer text. When trained on multiple types of handwriting, we have the possibility of a model that can make general recognition. Then, it is important to note that everyone has different handwriting, in angle, character style, and other unique features. Adaptive machine learning methods can solve this issue for personal uses of text scanners because it will allow a personal dataset to be collected on your handwriting by separating individual words into character chunks and then creating equivalent conversions into ASCII text values.

As well, machine learning can be used to “fill in the blanks” between unknown characters to have better word recognition. This can be considered with the word “unique”. If the program can confidently see “uniq__” where “ue” is blended into what may be seen as a single character, text prediction methods may be used to determine that the “single character” should be interpreted as “ue” based on the previous four characters.

Personalization of datasets and learning off of said datasets allows for better learning models for scanning applications. This can be note taking for university students (see Rocketbook’s image to document feature) and allow better results for individual users who would give larger datasets to improve their personal model. 

### What data to use?
We have decided to use the [IMGUR5K](https://github.com/facebookresearch/IMGUR5K-Handwriting-Dataset) and [English Handwritten Character](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/dhruvildave/english-handwritten-characters-dataset) datasets as a starting point for the project. The [IMGUR5K](https://github.com/facebookresearch/IMGUR5K-Handwriting-Dataset) dataset contains a wide variety of handwriting styles and writing conditions, so the model can learn how to take these factors into consideration when analyzing users’ handwritings. As well, the English Handwritten Character dataset uses primarily handwritings made from digital note-taking programs, which could help the model in recognizing handwriting from real-life or from digital programs. We also plan to create our own datasets off of user data to continuously train the model, building a personalized model to recognize an individual’s 
